## The hunt for modifiers of the Tcb-1 locus

Merritt Burch, Donald Auger

Teosinte crossing barrier 1 (Tcb1) is a genetic cross-incompatibility system responsible for blocking non-self-type pollen in silks. Traditionally found in teosintes, Tcb1-s (strong allele) has been introduced into modern maize varieties conferring resistance to tcb1 pollen. A previous quantitative trait loci (QTL) study of a similar cross incompatibility system, Gametophye factor 1 (Ga1-s) has demonstrated that multiple modifying loci contribute to the effectiveness of silks at resisting foreign pollen types. Little is known about the genetic modifiers of Tcb1 and, most importantly, what the underlying biological mechanism is for this cross incompatibility. An opportunity to investigate this was suggested by Jerry Kermicle, who observed that nearly all the F1's of various inbreds, including B73, crossed by W22 Tcb1-s demonstrate strong incompatibility with tcb1 pollen. The one exception was Mo17, whose F1s had much weaker resistance. In our poster we will outline our study using the intermated B73 and Mo17 (IBM) population crossed with homozygous W22 Tcb1-s plants to test the efficiency of the various F1s at rejecting tcb1 pollen. We produced the F1s this last summer and this next season we will test the efficacy of each of the F1 lines. To do that we will first test the Tcb1 silks with colored R1-scm2 tcb1 pollen and the next day pollinate the same silks with colorless Tcb1-s pollen. Mature ears will be scored for the proportion of colored kernels and the generated data will allow for QTL mapping of Tcb1 modifying factors. Further knowledge of cross-incompatibility can be beneficial to breeders and farmers when only certain pollen types are desired on specialty maize crops. 

