## A meta-GWAS reanalysis of twenty years of quantitative traits in maize

Merritt B. Burch1, Anju Giri2, Guillaume Ramstein2, Brandon Monier2, M. Cinta Romay2, Edward S. Buckler1,2,3

1 Section of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853
2 Institute for Genomic Diversity, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY USA 14853
3 USDA-ARS; Ithaca, NY, USA 14853

Identification of loci that contribute to the complex genetic architecture controlling maize traits has intrigued maize geneticists for many years. In this study, we remap phenotypes from across maize populations to find the features that characterize complex traits. Past mapping experiments have been difficult to compare to each other because they have focused on one population, utilize different genome versions, and have only analyzed a few traits. In this study, we collected thousands of previously published morphological, metabolic, and expression phenotypes across the Nested Association Mapping population (NAM), SeeDs of Discovery, the Goodman Association Panel, and the USDA-ARS NCRPIS collection (‘Ames’ panel) in multiple environments. We then mapped these datasets in a meta-GWAS using consistent model parameters. Due to the high genetic heterogeneity within and between these populations, we use a combination of global and local principal components to control for linked loci arising from population structure and kinship. We hypothesize that the properties of these mapped variants can predict loci that have a functional impact, uncover regulatory networks of gene activity, reveal genotype by environment effects, and uncover loci showing statistical pleiotropy. We will compile these results in an online, queryable database for maize geneticists and breeders to mine for associations of interest for gene prioritization and gene editing.
