## Mapping loci that modify the efficacy of Teosinte crossing barrier 1

Merritt B. Burch and Donald Auger


Teosinte crossing barrier 1 (Tcb1) is a genetic cross-incompatibility factor that is responsible for blocking non-self-type pollen in silks. Originally found in teosintes, Tcb1-s (strong allele) has been introduced into modern maize varieties conferring resistance to tcb1 pollen. Previous studies using a similar cross incompatibility system, Gametophye factor 1 (Ga1-s) suggest that the cell wall modification enzyme ZmPme3, a pectin methylesterase, along with multiple modifying QTL loci contribute to the effectiveness of silks at resisting foreign pollen types. In Tcb1, little is known about the genetic modifiers and, more importantly, what the underlying biological mechanism is for this cross incompatibility. Cross-incompatibility systems like Tcb1 and Ga1 can be beneficial to breeders and farmers when only certain pollen types are desired on specialty maize crops. It was observed that nearly all the F1's of various inbreds, including B73, crossed by W22 Tcb1-s demonstrate strong incompatibility with tcb1 pollen. One exception was Mo17, whose F1s had weaker resistance. In this study we used recombinant inbred lines (RILS) from the intermated B73-Mo17 (IBM) population crossed with homozygous W22 Tcb1-s plants to test the efficacy of the various F1s at blocking tcb1 pollen. The F1s were tested by first challenging the Tcb1-s silks with R1 C1 tcb1 pollen and the next day pollinated the same silks with r1 c1 Tcb1-s pollen. The resulting ears were scored for the percentage of colored kernels. Six quantitative trait loci (QTL) were detected on chromosomes 1, 3, 5, and 7 that explained 28.9% of the phenotypic variability. Most modifying QTL loci showed simple additivity effects and epistatic interactions between loci. Further exploration into these genomic regions and the underlying candidate genes is underway, these results could shed light on the genetic and physiological mechanisms controlling Tcb1.